---
layout: post
title: Setting up EliteJournal on TextDrive without a vhost
categories:
- documentation
author: admin
published: true
date: 2004-12-31 16:26:03.000000000 +00:00
---
<a href="http://www.textdrive.com">TextDrive</a> is the official host for Ruby on Rails and as such gets all the action for cool integration efforts. We have a bunch in store that'll turn the current state of "easy to get going" into "<i>ridiculously</i> easy to get flying". 

While that is cooking, Scott Baron has written up an excellent guide on <a href="http://trac.elitists.net/cgi-bin/trac.cgi/wiki/EJOnTextDrive">how to install Elite Journal on TextDrive</a> without using another vhost. He even created a <a href="http://elitists.textdriven.com/ej/">testing blog</a> just to prove it.

For those of you that don't have a TextDrive account yet, I'd like to reiterate the point that this is one of the best ways to support the development of Rails (short of <a href="http://dev.rubyonrails.com/">contributing</a> patches or documentation). 

They have some <a href="http://www.textdrive.com/plans/">incredibly reasonable plans</a>, an excellent environment for Ruby on Rails development, a staff that actually cares deeply about Ruby and Rails, and they're contributing 50% of the profits on Rails signups to further development of the framework.

So if you're still stuck elsewhere, now is the time to think about migrating. 

<i>And that concludes this shameless plug for TextDrive hidding behind the appearance of a documentation announcement.</i>