---
layout: post
title: Three Ruby on Rails programmers needed in London
categories:
- jobs
author: admin
published: true
date: 2005-02-14 16:37:18.000000000 +00:00
---
Sean O'Halpin is <a href="http://one.textdrive.com/pipermail/rails/2005-February/002984.html">advertising</a> on the Rails mailing list for three Ruby on Rails programmers for work in central London, UK. Here's the short pitch:

<blockquote>I am looking for 3 permanent top notch Ruby developers - 2 senior and 1 intermediate - to work in central London, UK. I head up a small group of programmers who produce business applications in-house for a large communications agency in the advertising market. Demand for our services is growing so we need to expand our team.</blockquote>

The requirements for the two senior positions are:

<blockquote>The senior programmers need 5+ years experience in a variety of languages and platforms dealing with the full project lifecycle in a variety of domains. You will be expected to gather requirements, design systems and manage a project from start to finish. You will report to me, the System Architect.</blockquote>

...and for the intermediate position:

<blockquote>The intermediate programmer will be reporting to one of the seniors and should have 3+ years experience and be confident in team leading and administrative skills. Your role will be to support the seniors and to be sysadmin for the team.</blockquote>

Exciting stuff. Read the <a href="http://one.textdrive.com/pipermail/rails/2005-February/002984.html">full thing</a> on the <a href="http://lists.rubyonrails.org/mailman/listinfo/rails">mailing list</a> and get in contact with Sean if you're interested.