---
layout: post
title: ! 'Jobs, jobs, jobs: Hiring Ruby on Rails is hot'
categories: []
author: admin
published: true
date: 2005-08-23 07:05:16.000000000 +01:00
---
You take off for just a little vacation and come back to an inbox stuffed with job offers for Ruby on Rails:

* <a href="http://search.looksmart.com/">LookSmart</a>, based in San Francisco, is putting their enterprise app on Rails -- a dynamic advertising marketplace managing millions of listings and bids, syndication partners, integration with CRM, credit card processing, web services APIs, etc. They're working with <a href="http://www.clarkware.com/cgi/blosxom">Mike Clark</a> and <a href="http://blog.x180.net/">James Duncan Davidson</a> to help bootstrap this project, and they're looking for a top-notch, high-energy lead for the team, plus an additional engineer. A great opportunity to get paid to work in Rails on an app that's central to a public company's mission. If you've got the chops for either role, they'd like to talk to you. Contact Bert Knorr (bknorr_at_looksmart.net) for more info.
* Naviance is <a href="http://www.naviance.com/company/webdes.html">looking for a designer with Rails experience</a>. Especially Ajax and Ajax on Rails experience. The person will be working with Chad Fowler, who just joined the company as their lead developer.
* Digital Age Media is looking for an experienced Ruby on Rails programmer to work on an online game. The work can be done remotely. Experience with video game theory and programming is a plus, but is not required. If interested please send an email with a resume, links to your work, rates, and availability to jobs at digitalagemedia dot net.
* Free The Slaves is <a href="http://freetheslaves.net/blog/archive/2005/08/ruby_on_rails_d.php">looking for a volunteer (unpaid) Rails developer</a> to create an e-commerce system for the organization.