---
layout: post
title: James Duncan Davidson embraces Rails
categories:
- praise
author: admin
published: true
date: 2005-06-02 09:53:37.000000000 +01:00
---
<a href="http://blog.x180.net/">James Duncan Davidson</a> and <a href="http://www.clarkware.com/cgi/blosxom">Mike Clark</a> have been working together on a commercial Rails project for a few weeks now. And while Mike has long been <a href="http://www.clarkware.com/cgi/blosxom/2005/05/22#RapidFeedback">singing the</a> <a href="http://www.clarkware.com/cgi/blosxom/2005/05/07#TestingChapter">praises of</a> Rails (much appreciated!), I've been quite curious to hear James' thoughts. I'm very flattered on behalf of the Rails team to quote the following:

<blockquote>Rails is the most well thought-out web development framework I've ever used. And that's in a decade of doing web applications for a living. I've built my own frameworks, helped develop the Servlet API, and have created more than a few web servers from scratch. Nobody has done it like this before.</blockquote>

He <a href="http://blog.x180.net/2005/06/rails_a_few_wee.html#more">goes on to talk</a> about how Rails is of course not perfect, but that he really likes the Convention over Configuration and says "...if I never see another damn XML configuration file in my life, I'd be happy as a pig in mud".

I can't wait to see how all these great Java minds are going to unleash their ideas on the platform. There's a melting pot brewing with the influx of programmers coming from PHP, Java, .NET, and other environments as well as all the designers picking it. Great things in the making.