---
layout: post
title: ! '"Some amazing web apps appear on Ruby on Rails"'
categories:
- praise
author: admin
published: true
date: 2005-01-02 11:58:03.000000000 +00:00
---
Luis de la Rosa is <a href="http://www.luisdelarosa.com/blog/2005/01/my_predictions_.html">predicting</a> the highlights of 2005, which includes plenty of Java goodies, such as Eclipse and Java 1.5 by default on OS X Tiger (that would be a nice move). But more importantly, Luis picks the rise of dynamic languages for spot number five:

<blockquote>5. Dynamic languages gain ground: Ruby and Groovy increase in usage, but no full-time jobs appear. Some amazing web apps appear on Ruby on Rails.</blockquote>

Luis made a safe bet predicting that "amazing web apps" will come barring the banner of Ruby on Rails: It happened on the 1st day of 2005! <a href="http://www.43things.com">43things.com</a> launched and it is indeed an amazing web application that has the most lofty of goals: Push human ambition higher!

Luckily, Luis is already kinda wrong on "no full-time jobs appear, will be fully wrong half-way into the New Year, and even <i>silly wrong</i> by the end of December 2005. Companies around the world are already employing full-time Railers, like <a href="http://www.combustionlabs.com/">Combustion Labs</a> (4 developers),  <a href="http://www.robotcoop.com/">The Robot Coop</a> (4 developers), <a href="http://www.collaboraid.biz/">Collaboraid</a> (3 developers), <a href="http://www.basesys.com/">Base Systems</a> (2 developers), <a href="http://www.37signals.com">37signals</a> (2 developers), and of course a legion of independent consultants and tech departments in tons of universities and big corporations (<a href="http://one.textdrive.com/pipermail/rails/2004-December/000892.html">read more</a>).

But I agree with Luis that <i>big companies</i> won't be picking up Ruby on Rails for real before 2006. So that'll leave the front runners and early adopters among small companies with a significant competitive advantage for the entirety of 2005. Congratulations, guys.