---
layout: post
title: ! '''They won''t ever fit together like Rails'''
categories:
- praise
author: admin
published: true
date: 2005-02-23 15:17:00.000000000 +00:00
---
Matt Grayson is another Python programmer that despite his love for Python "...haven't done much Python lately". He <a href="http://www.eitheror.org/archive/2005/02/i_didnt_mean_fo.php">blames Rails</a>, which he declares "...is worth the hype.". On the prospect of seeing Python on Rails, he offers:

<blockquote>The closest thing I'd found to Rails in Python is a combination of CherryPy, SQLObject and Cheetah. But as much as I like each one of those pieces individually, they won't ever fit together like Rails - which is why I don't have a lot of optimism for things like Subway. I've got nothing against Subway. Could they pull it off and put together a really good Python web framework? Sure. But, given the track record of past attempts at web frameworks within the Python community, I won't hold my breath.</blockquote>

And <a href="http://blog.unquiet.net/">Jake from Maui</a> is yet another Python programmer that has been <a href="http://blog.unquiet.net/archives/2005/02/22/time-to-take-a-different-track/">getting into Ruby through Rails</a>:

<blockquote>Every time my work took extra time, it&rsquo;s because I was expecting a level of complexity that wasn&rsquo;t there. Wow. It&rsquo;s not often that one of the tools I use humbles me, but finally I&rsquo;ve found something that allows me to write code as fast as I think.</blockquote>