---
layout: post
title: Ease of development, speed of execution, pick two
categories:
- praise
author: admin
published: true
date: 2005-03-07 23:29:18.000000000 +00:00
---
Justin Gehtland has been working on an application using the Java/Spring/Hibernate/JSTL stack for about 5 months. He started redoing it in Rails as an experiment and <a href="http://www.relevancellc.com/blogs/?p=29">found something surprising</a>:

<blockquote>I&rsquo;ve been able to re-implement 80% of the functionality in just under four nights of work. Some of that most assuredly has to do with the fact that I understand the domain pretty thoroughly by this point. But a lot of it has to do with the sheer productivity of the framework.</blockquote>

He attributes this to convention over configuration, and how the "...configure, compile, deploy, reset cycle for running tests is time consuming on my original stack, and non-existent with Rails". But all that is just the familiar tune on "ease of development". Here's the real kicker:

<blockquote>Rails is actually faster.

At runtime, the Rails implementation is at least as fast as the original stack in almost every case, and for a not-insignificant portion of actions, actually performs better. I haven&rsquo;t run benchmarks yet, but I will as this effort progresses, but I was shocked (shocked, I say) to discover this.</blockquote>

Justin is the co-author of <a href="http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/bfljava/">Better, Faster, Lighter Java</a> and <a href="http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/springadn/">Spring: A Developer's Notebook</a>. 

Welcome on over, Justin! I can't wait to read more about your adventures with Rails. And best of luck convincing your customer to dump the 5-month effort in favor of your 4-night rewrite. I'll be cheering for you.