---
layout: post
title: Rails training opportunities in Europe
categories:
- sightings
- horizon
author: marcel
published: true
date: 2006-02-13 01:39:00.000000000 +00:00
---
In the next few months, our friends over in Europe will be getting several opportunities to attend Rails training courses.

* "Geoffrey Grosenbach":http://nubyonrails.com/, the man behind the "Rails podcast":http://podcast.rubyonrails.com/ as well as libraries such as "Gruph Graphs":http://nubyonrails.com/pages/gruff, will be doing a 1 day engagement in London on March 30th through "Carson Workshops":http://www.carsonworkshops.com/. If you'd like to get a quick headstart on diving into Rails this workshop is for you. You can register your seat for &pound;395. ["Register":http://www.carsonworkshops.com/dev/rubyonrails/30MAR2006.html]

For those looking for longer, more intensive training, April brings two options.

*  "Chad Fowler":http://chadfowler.com, author of the new "Rails Recipes":http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/fr_rr/ book, will be offering a comprehensive Rails course April 10th-14th in London through "Skills Matter":http://skillsmatter.com/. Chad has deep knowledge and experience with Ruby as well as Rails. His workshop provides particular attention to how Rails uses the strengths of Ruby to its great advantage. Seats are going for &pound;1,500. ["Register":http://skillsmatter.com/ruby-on-rails-course]

* "Rails core":http://rubyonrails.com/core member "Marcel Molina Jr.":http://project.ioni.st (me) will also be offering an intensive "5 day Rails retreat":http://bignerdranch.com/classes/ruby.shtml in Frankfurt, Germany at the "Kloster Eberbach Monestary":http://bignerdranch.com/classes/ourplace.shtml#frankfurt, April 10th-14th. Marcel's "class in December sold out":http://www.notio.com/2005/12/geek_fest.html almost immediately and his upcoming class in March is sold out as well. Only 17 seats available for this one so get in while you can for &#8364;2,800. ["Register":http://bignerdranch.com/classes/register.shtml]

How long before "Dave Thomas":http://blogs.pragprog.com/cgi-bin/pragdave.cgi and "Mike Clark":http://clarkware.com/ bring their "Pragmatic studio":http://studio.pragprog.com/rails/ over to Europe? 

Rails training is spreading.