---
layout: post
title: ! 'Ruby/Rails in the Valley: the Silicon Valley Ruby Conference'
categories:
- sightings
author: chad
published: true
date: 2006-03-18 20:17:00.000000000 +00:00
---
"David Black":http://www.rubypowerandlight.com sends along this note about the upcoming Silicon Valley Ruby Conference, which features Rails core's own "Marcel Molina Jr.":http://www.vernix.org/marcel  and "Jeremy Kemper":http://bitsweat.net:


"Ruby Central":http://www.rubycentral.org is a name you can trust in conferences ("RubyConf":http://www.rubyconf.org and
"RailsConf":http://railsconf.org), and now Ruby Central has teamed up with "SDForum":http://www.sdforum.org to present

      Silicon Valley Ruby Conference
      April 22-23, 2006
      http://www.sdforum.org/rubyreg


The impetus for this event was SDForum's interest in producing a top-notch conference with a regional focus but with broad Ruby/Rails
appeal.  SDForum asked Ruby Central to co-produce the event, and
the Silicon Valley Ruby Conference is the result.

Who should attend this conference?  Everyone who didn't get into
RailsConf.  Plus, everyone who DID get into RailsConf!  Don't let the
subtle marketing fool you: this is one of the major Ruby/Rails events
of the year.

Speakers include:

* "Marcel Molina":http://vernix.org/marcel (Rails core developer and "37 Signals":http://37signals.com programmer)
* "Jeremy Kemper":http://bitsweat.net/ (Rails core developer and "CD Baby":http://cdbaby.com programmer)
* "Chad Fowler":http://chadfowler.com ("Rails Recipes":http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/fr_rr author)
* Hal Fulton ("The Ruby Way":http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0672328844/sr=8-2/qid=1142713145/ref=pd_bbs_2/102-5553503-2996155?%5Fencoding=UTF8 author)

and many others.

Questions? Contact David Black (dblack@rubycentral.org).
