---
layout: post
title: Capistrano 1.1.9 (beta)
categories:
- releases
author: jamis
published: true
date: 2006-08-30 18:46:00.000000000 +01:00
---
A new release of Capistrano is nearly upon us! Before I unleash it upon the world, though, I'd like to have a few brave souls put it through its paces, so I'm doing a brief run of it as a pre-release. You can grab it from the Rails beta gem server:

<code>gem install -s http://gems.rubyonrails.com capistrano</code>

There are a lot of changes in this release, most of them minor or cosmetic. However, there are some changes that may bite you, too.

*The most significant change that may affect you* has to do with the roles used for the +setup+, +update_code+, +rollback_code+, and +symlink+ tasks. These tasks have changed such that they now deploy to _all defined servers_. That's right, if you've got a server associated with any role, those tasks will deploy to that server. However, a server can explicitly _opt out_ of being part of release deployment by setting <code>:no_release => true</code> in its role definition:

<pre><code>   role :file, "file-server.somewhere.example",
        :no_release => true</code></pre>

*Take note of that!* If you have any servers using non-standard roles (any role besides web, app, or db), you need to explicitly add <code>:no_release => true</code> in their role definitions, or your next deploy will target those servers, too.

Other significant changes that may or may not tickle you:

* The <notextile>-r/--recipe</notextile> command line option is deprecated. You should use <notextile>-f/--file</notextile> instead.
* Matthew Elder has contributed (and agreed to maintain) a module for the Mercurial SCM.
* If you have sudo in a non-standard location, you can specify the path to sudo via the :sudo variable
* Added :svn_passphrase so you can use keys with passphrases
* Fixed missing default for :local in the CVS module
* Subversion SCM accepts HTTPS certificates now
* Work with pid-based setups (new spawner/reaper)
* Added update task
* Added :except on task declarations (as the opposite of :only)
* Override the hosts to be used for a task via the HOSTS environment variable
* Override the roles that will be used for a task via the ROLES environment variable
* Added :hosts option on task declarations for defining tasks that work only on specific machines (rather than by role)
* Don't require a capfile (this allows you to use capistrano to operate on arbitrary hosts, all from the command line)

Various other changes have been made as well--you can look at the CHANGELOG for a complete list.