---
layout: post
title: Rails training for a good cause
categories:
- sightings
- documentation
author: marcel
published: true
date: 2006-04-19 12:24:00.000000000 +01:00
---
Here's a good idea: Use a hot new technology to help kids prepare to create the next hot new technology. 

"Amy Hoy":http://slash7.com, "Ezra Zygmuntowicz":http://www.brainspl.at/ and "Jeff Casimir":http://www.casimircreative.com/ are doing just that and calling it "Workshop for Good":http://www.workshopforgood.org/. On Saturday, May 20th and Sunday, May 21st, in Washington, D.C. "Amy":http://www.slash7.com/articles/2006/04/17/teaching-rails-for-charity-in-d-c, "Ezra":http://www.brainspl.at/articles/2006/04/10/rails-workshop-for-good and Jeff will be teaching an intensive Rails workshop. All (i.e. 100%) of the proceeds from attendance fees ($400 regular, $200 for students) will go towards buying stuff like computers for the students of "César Chávez Public Charter School":http://www.chavezschools.org/.

Amy Hoy has been giving back to the Rails community with education almost since day one. You may have gotten over the initial hurdles yourself with one of her "accessible tutorials":http://www.slash7.com/articles/2005/02/22/mvc-the-most-vexing-conundrum or "clarifying visual aids":http://www.slash7.com/images/mvc.png. Ezra Zygmuntowicz singlehandedly built one of the first substantial real world Rails applications, the "Yakima Herald Website":http://yakimaherald.com/ and is currently working on a Rails book for the "Pragmatic Programmers":http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com. Both bring substantial experience with Rails to the workshop.

Last I heard there were 23 spots left so get on the list while you still can. Take this opportunity to both learn Rails and promote a great cause. Killing two birds with one stone is seriously agile.

"Sign up here":http://www.workshopforgood.org/signup/new


*UPDATE:* There are only 8 seats left! If you were thinking of coming, now is your chance to get in.