---
layout: post
title: European RailsConf talk proposals
categories:
- horizon
author: marcel
published: true
date: 2006-06-28 13:38:00.000000000 +01:00
---
"Talk proposals are now being accepted":http://eurorails.rubycentral.org for the "European Rails                     
Conference":http://europe.railsconf.org/, to be held September 14-15 in London.  Accepted speakers              
will get free admission to the conference.  Join a line up that already includes the creator of Rails, David Heinemeier Hansson, Pragmatic Programmer Dave Thomas, best-selling author and passion maven Kathy Sierra, Rails core developers Jamis Buck, Marcel Molina, Jr., and Thomas Fuchs, Rails authors and trainers David Alan Black, and Chad Fowler, and Rake author Jim Weirich.                                      
                                                                                  
Proposal suggestions span a variety of Rails topics, including:                  
                                                                                  
  * case-studies in interesting Rails applications                                
  * Rails add-ons and adapations (including experimental ones)                    
  * analyses and critiques of specific aspects of the framework                   
  * the use of Ruby in/for/with Rails development                                 
  * comparative analysis of Rails and other frameworks                            
  * testing, coding, deployment, and all the rest!                                
                                                                                  
The deadline for proposals is July 21.  You are asked to submit a title, a short abstract, and a slightly longer                       
description (400 words or so).  You don't have to have the whole talk             
written, just a reasonably detailed overview.

"Send in your talk proposal":http://eurorails.rubycentral.org.                           
                                                                                  
You can write to David A. Black (dblack at wobblini.net) if you have questions about the proposal             
process.

Keep an eye on the conference website "feed":http://europe.railsconf.org/xml/rss/feed.xml for updates.