---
layout: post
title: SwitchTower 0.10.0
categories:
- releases
author: jamis
published: true
date: 2006-01-02 18:19:00.000000000 +00:00
---
You can read the "complete changelog":http://rubyforge.org/frs/shownotes.php?release_id=3930, but here's a quick overview of some of the most notable changes:

h3. Bugs Fixed

* Handle SSH password prompts formatted like "someone's password:"
* Allow the sudo password to be reentered if it was entered incorrectly
* Errors during checkout are now caught and reported early
* Avoid timeouts on long-running commands
* Add a small sleep during command processing to give the CPU a rest
* Rake tasks should work much more nicely on Windows (you'll need to do @switchtower --apply-to /path/to/app@ to update, keeping your @config/deploy.rb@ and overwriting @lib/tasks/switchtower.rake@)

h3. New Features

*@ssh_options@ variable*

There is now an @ssh_options@ hash that you can use in your recipe files to set custom SSH connection options, like setting a non-standard port to connect on:

<typo:code lang="ruby">
  ssh_options[:port] = 2345
</typo:code>

*Allow svn checkouts to use @export@ instead of @co@*

If you don't want to use an @svn co@ to checkout your code, you can set the @:checkout@ variable to @:export@, and SwitchTower will use @svn export@ instead.

<typo:code lang="ruby">
  set :checkout, :export
</typo:code>

This variable defaults to @:co@.

*@update_current@ task*

There is now an @update_current@ task that just does an @svn up@ on the last-deployed release. This is useful for trivial updates, like when a template changed.

*@cleanup@ task*

You can easily remove unused releases from your deployment directories with the @cleanup@ task. It will (by default) keep the 5 most recent releases, and delete the rest.

*SFTP for file transfers*

Net::SFTP is now used (if it is available) for file transfers. This should make transferring large files more robust, as well as allow binary characters in files.

*@restart_via@ variable*

You can now set the @:restart_via@ variable to @:run@, if you need to have the @restart@ task use @run@ instead of @sudo@.

<typo:code lang="ruby">
  set :restart_via, :run
</typo:code>

This defaults variable to @:sudo@.