---
layout: post
title: ! 'Production Rails: Rails Training Gets Deeper and More Focused'
categories: []
author: chad
published: true
date: 2006-04-02 21:41:00.000000000 +01:00
---
As the art of Rails development matures,  so do the ways we teach and learn about it.  Following the release of Rails 1.1, the state of Rails training just took a small step forward along with it.

Mike Clark "just announced":http://clarkware.com/cgi/blosxom/2006/04/02#AnnouncingProductionRails a new course from the perpetually-sold-out "Pragmatic Studio":http://www.pragmaticstudio.com on "Production Rails":http://pragmaticstudio.com/deploy/index.html deployment.

Since the release of Rails, teams have been steadily forming around new products and projects in Rails.  While there have been a lot of great resources for learning how to do Rails _development_, this is the first in a sure-to-be-expanding market for training and documentation on how best to deploy and manage a production Rails application.  The course is being taught by "Rails Studio":http://pragmaticstudio.com/rails/index.html veteran and "Pragmatic Project Automation":http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/starter_kit/au/index.html author "Mike Clark":http://clarkware.com and Rails deployment expert (not to mention creator of Tomcat and Ant) "James Duncan Davidson":http://duncandavidson.com/about.

The location and exact time haven't yet been decided, so "signing up to be notified":http://pragmaticstudio.com/deploy/register.html just _may_ have an impact.

How do you think the training and documentation market for Rails will continue to evolve? What would _you_ like to see next?