---
layout: post
title: ! 'New from O''Reilly: RJS Templates for Rails'
categories:
- releases
author: marcel
published: true
date: 2006-06-13 22:31:00.000000000 +01:00
---
"Cody Fauser":http://www.codyfauser.com/ has just announced the release of his PDF-only book "RJS Templates for Rails":http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/rjsrails/. 

From almost the day we checked rjs into the repository, Cody was quickly singling himself out as an expert. When he found out they weren't going to make the 1.0 release, he made an rjs plugin available for those staying back at 1.0. Before we had extensive documentation, he was doing the dirty work, putting together various "tutorials":http://www.codyfauser.com/articles/2005/11/20/rails-rjs-templates and "explanations":http://www.codyfauser.com/articles/2006/03/16/rjs-element-and-collection-proxies. Many of you likely learned about rjs from Cody. And now, many more of you likely will too.

"Jaded Pixel":http://jadedpixel.com wisely brought him onto their team. He's applied his rjs skills to great effect on "Shopify":http://shopify.com.

As a reviewer of _RJS Templates for Rails_, I can attest to it being comprehensive and up to date.  The book provides a tutorial style guide to using rjs then at the end there is a full reference. Most impressively, Cody is a solid technical writer. I'm quite sure this is  his first book yet it reads like it was written by someone who's been doing this for years. I hope it's not his last.

You can "get a copy":http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/rjsrails/ for 9 bucks.