---
layout: post
title: Rails Guides Wants You
categories:
- documentation
author: Mike Gunderloy
published: true
date: 2008-11-03 19:30:00.000000000 +00:00
---
If you haven't looked at the state of Rails documentation lately, it's time to look again. The new "Ruby on Rails Guides":http://guides.rubyonrails.org/ page includes 14 separate guides for Rails developers, with topics ranging from "Getting Started" to routing, security, testing, and debugging. That's over 70,000 words of help content for Rails users that didn't exist two months ago when we launched the "Rails Guides project":http://hackfest.rubyonrails.org/guide.

But we're not done yet! We're starting phase 2 of the Guides project, and planning a fresh batch of content to add to what's already there. Our goal is to have a single page where you can find all of the information you need to be an effective Rails developer. Remember, though: this is open source. That means we want _your_ help too!

Here's what you can do to get involved:

* Read about the process of and rewards for contributing on the "Hackfest page":http://hackfest.rubyonrails.org/guide.
* Check the list of "available tickets":http://rails.lighthouseapp.com/projects/16213-rails-guides/tickets?q=state%3Aavailable in our Lighthouse project, and sign up to write a guide.
* Submit corrections, suggestion, bugs, or patches for the existing guides. You'll find a link to the relevant Lighthouse ticket at the bottom of each guide.
* Let us know what other guides you think should be added - whether you want to write them, or just hope that someone else will. Just leave a note in the comments here and we'll get your idea into the process.

You'll usually find some of the documentation team hanging around in #docrails on IRC. Come join us and help the community!