---
layout: post
title: This Week in Edge Rails
categories:
- edge
author: Mike Gunderloy
published: true
date: 2008-12-05 14:51:00.000000000 +00:00
---
h3. November 29-December 5, 2008 Edition

Rails 2.3 development is still continuing at a healthy clip. Here's an overview of what's happened this week.

h2. Application Templates

Rails now incorporates Jeremy McAnally's "rg":http://github.com/jeremymcanally/rg/tree/master application generator. What this means is that we now have template-based application generation built right into Rails; if you have a set of plugins you include in every application (among many other use cases), you can just set up a template once and use it over and over again when you run the <code>rails</code> command. Pratik Naik provided a "thorough writeup":http://m.onkey.org/2008/12/4/rails-templates of this feature over on his blog. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/e8cc4b116c460c524961a07da92da3f323854c15

h2. Find Improvements

Even the venerable code used by Active Record to talk to databases can be improved, and we had a couple of improvements checked in this week. First, the SQL generated for preloading records in has_and_belongs_to_many associations has had an extra "AS" excised, which makes it work better with some databases. Also, we now have a <code>:having</code> option on find (as well as on has_many and has_and_belongs_to_many associations) for filtering records in grouped finds. As those with heavy SQL backgrounds know, this allows filtering based on grouped results:

<pre><code>
developers =  Developer.find(:all, :group => "salary", 
  :having => "sum(salary) >  10000", :select => "salary")
</code></pre>

"commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/0c4ba90aa1ea6a8d386c724a55a31e63a13c46ab "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/97403ad5fdfcdfb2110c6f8fd0ebf43b7afc4859

h2. Rack Integration

The tighter integration of Rails with "Rack":http://rack.rubyforge.org/ continues. This week saw the death of the venerable CGI processor within Rails, as well as the use of Rack to handle FCGI. There was also some refactoring down in the Rails tests to make them play nicer with Rack. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/9c9da6c892d715ca22c3cf51f50deb1d80029c66 "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/926844e869b747fa1e9474fd95f9b97fa04ae092

h2. Configuration File Cleanup

Over the years, the default environment.rb file had gotten a bit cluttered with comments, random documentation, and settings that mot people don't need. DHH took a few minutes to clean up the mess, and the "current state":http://github.com/rails/rails/tree/master/railties/environments/environment.rb of this file is much leaner. As part of the cleanup, session store configuration has been moved out to its own file. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/6e66e7d6460b99bb0877a891aa3fbb789b563123

h2. No More Process Scripts

If you're one of the (fairly rare) Rails developers who deploys in a fashion that depends on the inspector, reaper, and spawner scripts, you'll need to know that those scripts are no longer included in core Rails. For Rails applications that are reployed with current alternatives like Passenger, these are just unnecessary baggage. But if you need them, you'll be able to pick up copies via the "irs_process_scripts":http://github.com/rails/irs_process_scripts/tree plugin. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/3b3c0507e2f67a0f64dc04b396c1d13411ab5890

h2. Odds and Ends

The fact that Rails checks for IP spoofing can be a nuisance for sites that do heavy traffic with cell phones, because their proxies don't generally set things up right. If that's you, you can now set <code>ActionController::Base.ip_spoofing_check = false</code> to disable the check entirely. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/0a4a5f3129a137fc357e8444a08b135f0ad4fbe8

Rails.root now returns a Pathname object, which means you can use it directly with the join method to "clean up existing code":http://afreshcup.com/2008/12/05/a-little-rails_root-tidiness/ that uses File.join. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/be140e8c6be966349c6fa35a87f84d5a73995b9a

ActionController::Dispatcher now implements its own middleware stack, which you can see by running <code>rake middleware</code>. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/06ed8e451198b2296d8b2752741e259b4f995081

Gem loading is smarter about missing dependencies. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/3c07a8828ede3d41000513af29c293ae2e2a49d4

auto_link now properly applies options (such as :target and :class) to generated e-mail links. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/bda55f82c687920807f606a2b024f1882094ef1e

