---
layout: post
title: This Week in Edge Rails
categories:
- edge
author: Mike Gunderloy
published: true
date: 2008-12-12 13:34:00.000000000 +00:00
---
h3. December 6-December 12, 2008 Edition

Here's your weekly roundup of the action out on the edge, where the code is exciting and sometimes even stable. There were only 32 commits this week; perhaps we're going into a bit of year-end hibernation.

h2. Memory Improvements

A couple of memory leaks got squashed this week. There was one that occurs in Rails 2.2 when you set <code>config.log_level = :warn</code> (this fix has been applied to the 2-2-stable branch as well as to edge) and one that turns up when you call <code>reset_session</code> in an around filter (this fix is on edge, and will be ported to 2.2 soon). "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/9f69ff12d44c4d1e475fd6efede120ccedba3b3e "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/5ede4ce188d29aef94af78f27d89169ac4ee54cd

h2. Application Templates

There was a bit of cleanup work on the application template feature that was introduced last week. This included support for "installing plugins as git submodules":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/9eca588bdfbb41f6b48477025d1cd8eea4a38296, a couple of small cleanup items, and a "rake task to apply a template to an existing application":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/f7f113610e7cdca8ef03e206f2cbeb8400cdfefa . With this task, you can now run 

<pre><code>
rake rails:template LOCATION=~/template.rb
</code></pre>

And the changes indicated in the template will be layered on top of whatever code the project already contains.

h2. I18n Cleanup

A few more bits of the Rails infrastructure are now exposed to internationalization, including "connectors in <code>Array#to_sentence</code>":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/273c770011ab43d4b523caacb808bce070922d77 and "separators in Active Record validation messages":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/c3b87dd4c99ba47d316bd03f99b5e23af1fe0ed8 . Also of interest to the international Rails community is a "patch":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/4e60eebae05aeec65e4894e3901c9d61c9b32910 to add an <code>ActiveSupport::Multibyte::Chars#ord</code> method to properly return the Unicode value of the first character in a string.

h2. Odds and Ends

There's a new version of the memcache-client (1.5.0.5) bundled with edge Rails. This fixes some bugs in the original 1.5 and adds better support for failover and timeouts. You can read more about it on the "Lighthouse ticket":http://rails.lighthouseapp.com/projects/8994/tickets/1535 "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/e54f17920fddebdfa241a5d9253ad5810972af87

Active Record's "to_xml":http://afreshcup.com/2008/11/05/customizing-to_xml-and-to_json-in-rails/ support gets just a little bit more flexible with the addition of a <code>:camelize</code> option, which converts all of the column names in the output to camel case. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/aa5cdb0d47fb5484bfdde8244df7efeb2175bf3a

If you test a lot of view code that uses partials, you'll be happy to know that <code>assert_template</code> now takes a <code>:partial</code> option that can look for them in the output directly. "commit":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/49306ccacf01e36d444771d42321965616e226f0

And finally, there's a patch that has _not_ been applied to Rails yet, but that you might want to go look at in "Lighthouse":http://rails.lighthouseapp.com/projects/8994/tickets/1556 - it adds support for HTTP status code 418 so that Rails can conform to "RFC2324":http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2324 . I'm sure the core team would welcome further discussion of this change.
