---
layout: post
title: This Week in Rails (July 26, 2008)
categories:
- general
author: Antonio Cangiano
published: true
date: 2008-07-26 04:15:00.000000000 +01:00
---
Welcome to the fourth edition of This Week in Rails, a weekly (and occasionally fortnightly) report with highlights from the Rails community.

David broke the news of the availability of "confirmed and scheduled talks at RailsConf Europe":http://en.oreilly.com/railseurope2008/public/schedule/grid which will be taking place this coming September. As you can see there will be a lot of exciting material this year, too.

The e-book "Ruby on Rails 2.1 - What’s New":http://www.nomedojogo.com/2008/07/21/free-book-ruby-on-rails-21-whats-new-7-translations/ is now available in 7 languages: English, Portuguese, Japanese, Simplified and Traditional Chinese, Italian and Korean. A Spanish version is coming as well. Olé!

A couple of weeks ago I took "a close look":http://antoniocangiano.com/2008/07/14/a-close-look-at-three-rails-21-bugs/ at three Rails 2.1 database related bugs. On the same day, "Phusion Passenger 2.0.2 was released":http://blog.phusion.nl/2008/07/14/phusion-passenger-202-released/. This edition backports a few bug fixes, including one for a small memory leak, and as such it's highly recommended for anyone using Passenger 2 (aka mod_rails).

"Kawaii":http://blog.forumwarz.com/2008/7/20/kawaii-a-web-based-utility-like-script-console is a web-based utility like script/console. The output of the inserted expression is visually appealing when compared to the one we're used to in the shell. Speaking of shiny things, version 2 of the Open Flash Chart plugin was released. "This page":http://www.pullmonkey.com/projects/open_flash_chart shows a few wicked cool, professional looking charts (and their code) that can be generated with it.

The article "Mulling Over Our Ruby On Rails Full Text Search Options":http://locomotivation.com/2008/07/15/mulling-over-our-ruby-on-rails-full-text-search-options discusses a few possible options for performing full text searches in Rails applications. When it comes to Sphinx, there are then two prominent plugins: UltraSphinx and ThinkingSphinx. Rein Henrichs from Hashrocket, compares the two approaches in his post titled "A Thinking Man's Sphinx":http://reinh.com/blog/2008/07/14/a-thinking-mans-sphinx.html.

The team behind "Rails-Doc.org":http://rails-doc.org/ added a few more functionalities, including the ability to document the API for multiple versions of Rails.

Other noteworthy articles were the following:

* "Mobilize Your Rails Application with Mobile Fu":http://intridea.com/2008/7/21/mobilize-your-rails-application-with-mobile-fu.
* "The complete guide to setting up Starling":http://rubypond.com/articles/2008/07/17/the-complete-guide-to-setting-up-starling/, which includes installing and configuring workers, and how to monitor the services through god.
* "Rockstar Memcaching":http://blog.leetsoft.com/2008/7/21/rockstar-memcaching, which is a presentation from the recent RubyFringe conference in Toronto.
* "Using Emacs for Rails development - The perfect setup":http://devcraft.wordpress.com/2008/07/19/using-emacs-for-rails-development-the-perfect-setup/.
* "Making SWFUpload and Rails work together":http://seventytwo.co.uk/posts/making-swfupload-and-rails-work-together.

Ryan Bates was interviewed by FiveRuns and his insightful answers are reported in "Rails TakeFive: Five Questions with Ryan Bates":http://blog.fiveruns.com/2008/7/18/rails-takefive-five-questions-with-ryan-bates. He also published a couple of new railscasts on "Liquid":http://railscasts.com/episodes/118 safe templates and on "Session Based Models":http://railscasts.com/episodes/119.

"Rails Envy podcast number 39":http://www.railsenvy.com/2008/7/23/rails-envy-podcast-episode-039-07-23-2008 was published this week. Check out also their hilarious video about "Outdated HTML":http://www.railsenvy.com/2008/7/23/mvc-public-service-announcement-5-outdated-html. And if you haven't done so already, don't miss the funniest voicemail and remix the Rails community has heard to date: "We ain't got no RSpec":http://www.railsenvy.com/2008/7/17/we-aint-got-no-rspec.

If you’d like to read more updates from the Ruby side of things, please head over to "This Week in Ruby":http://antoniocangiano.com/2008/07/26/this-week-in-ruby-july-26-2008/.