---
layout: post
title: Rails premieres on GitHub
categories:
- edge
author: David
published: true
date: 2008-04-11 13:45:00.000000000 +01:00
---
"GitHub":http://github.com has now officially launched and Rails is right there at the premiere. The Rails repository now lives at "rails/rails":http://github.com/rails/rails and you can check it out with:

  git clone git://github.com/rails/rails.git

If you don't have git, or don't enjoy running it on your platform, you need not fear. We've set up an automated task to produce a zip file of Rails Edge that'll be kept up to date all the time: <a href="http://dev.rubyonrails.org/archives/rails_edge.zip">http://dev.rubyonrails.org/archives/rails_edge.zip</a>. This is also what we've made the "new rake rails:freeze:edge":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/4b17082107aced980fc4b511028ee763247bc5ab use.

This also means that development on the Subversion repository has stopped and will no longer be kept up to date. We'll keep the Subversion repository around for some time for people to transition off svn:externals, though. But if you want the latest edge, you'll have to use either git or the new zip files.

We'll also soon go live with our new ticket management system, which will be running on a new version of "Lighthouse":http://lighthouseapp.com/. When that happens, the Trac installation will follow the Subversion repository into legacy. We'll still keep it around so we can work through all the patches and tickets that are there, but everything new will happen on the Lighthouse setup.

We hope you'll enjoy this upgrade to the Rails collaboration infrastructure. We're really looking forward to the onslaught of marvelous patches that the Git lords have promised us will flow from the mountain now.