---
layout: post
title: ! 'Living on the Edge (or what''s new in Edge Rails) #1 - API changes and PerformanceTests'
categories:
- edge
author: Chu Yeow
published: true
date: 2008-06-20 15:05:00.000000000 +01:00
---
<link rel="stylesheet" href="http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/assets/2008/6/20/ruby.css" type="text/css" media="screen" />
<script src="http://support.rubyonrails.org/weblog/codehighlighter/code_highlighter.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
<script src="http://support.rubyonrails.org/weblog/codehighlighter/ruby.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

As Gregg Pollack "mentioned a week or so ago":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2008/6/10/two-new-weekly-columns, I'll be keeping a weekly-or-so column about noteworthy changes on edge Rails. This is the first time Living on the Edge (of Rails) is appearing on the official Ruby on Rails weblog, so you'll have to bear with my short introduction.

"Living on the Edge":http://blog.codefront.net/category/edge-rails/ is a weekly column I used to put up on my "own blog":http://blog.codefront.net/ after some prodding by Gregg Pollack of "Rails Envy":http://railsenvy.com/ way back in December of 2007. I used to be a rather active Rails contributor back then so it was a no-brainer. Gregg and Jason were awesome enough to feature it weekly in their "podcast":http://railsenvy.com/podcast.

And now it's here, so try your best to be a tough crowd so I can tune these blog posts so that they are actually useful to you - when I was blogging these on my tiny personal blog it wasn't that vital but now the audience is _significantly_ larger. Leave your suggestions and criticisms in the comments - they are greatly appreciated!

Anyway, there's been a ton of new features, API changes and performance improvements in the past 2 weeks or so since Rails 2.1 was released, so rather than dumping all into one mega-post, I've decided to break it into 2 posts for new features/API changes and performance improvements. In this post, I'm gonna talk about some of the *new features and API changes*.

h4. Minor API changes

Let's start jump straight in with some minor API changes.


h5. link_to now takes a block

The <code>link_to</code> helper now takes a block argument for those occasions when you have really long hyperlink text with variables in them:

<pre><code class="ruby"><% link_to(@profile) do %>
  <strong><%= @profile.name %></strong> -
  <span>Status: <%= @profile.status %></span>
<% end %></code></pre>

Some people would find it cleaner than:

<pre><code class="ruby"><%= link_to "<strong>#{@profile.name}</strong> -- <span>Status: #{@profile.status}</span>", @profile %></code></pre>

Credit goes to Sam Stephenson (of Prototype fame) and DHH for this change.

"Changeset details":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/8190bce8bc7249b7b9f3680195336eb3ca9508ee


h5. ActiveRecord::Base#merge_conditions is now part of the public API

Jeremy Kemper has made <code>ActiveRecord::Base#merge_conditions</code> a public method.

This is pretty useful if you have conditions from multiple sources or like to combine any conditions for any reason.

<pre><code class="ruby">Post.merge_conditions(
  {:title => 'Lucky ☆ Star'},
  ['rating IN (?)', 1..5]
)
=> "(`posts`.`title` = 'Lucky ☆ Star') AND (rating IN (1,2,3,4,5))"</code></pre>

Do note though that this merges with a SQL boolean <code>AND</code> only (no <code>OR</code>s).

"Changeset details":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/e328bdaab6c1cf920af3cabc0a27e32798a9fcb6


h5. Associations now take a :validate option

Association macros now accept a <code>:validate</code> option like so:

<pre><code class="ruby">class Anime > ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :characters, :validate => true
end</code></pre>

This tells ActiveRecord to validate the <code>characters</code> association when saving your <code>Anime</code> model - just like how <code>:validates_associated</code> works. The default is <code>false</code>, which is the current behavior in Rails 2.1 and earlier, so no need to fret. This works for all the other association macros as well (<code>has_one</code>, <code>belongs_to</code>, <code>has_and_belongs_to_many</code>).

Thumbs up to Jan De Poorter and Pratik Naik for this, which also fixes a "nasty bug":http://rails.lighthouseapp.com/projects/8994/tickets/301.

"Changeset details":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/7f140bbddaf70abc61570f6cfdcbfba5771ffc78 - "Ticket":http://rails.lighthouseapp.com/projects/8994/tickets/301


h5. ActiveSupport::StringInquirer and convenience Rails.env.development? methods

David Heinemeier Hansson (henceforth abbreviated as DHH - sorry!) recently added an <code>ActiveSupport::StringInquirer</code> String subclass that allows you to do this:

<pre><code class="ruby">s = ActiveSupport::StringInquirer.new('awesome')
=> "awesome"
s.awesome?
=> true
s.sucks?
=> false</code></pre>

An immediate use of this is when you are checking the environment your app is running in: <code>Rails.env</code> is wrapped in a StringInquirer so you can use query methods like <code>Rails.env.development?</code> and <code>Rails.env.production?</code>.

"Changeset details":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/8afa725f4b98a6e0ceee4792e8ebaebb6189e5f6


h5. Core extensions: Object#present? and Enumerable#many?

DHH also added some core extensions that while trivial, could make your code more readable. First up is <code>Object#present?</code>, which is essentially <code>!Object#blank?</code>

<pre><code class="ruby">[].present?
=> false
[1, 2].present?
=> true
"".present?
=> false
"i'm here".present?
=> true</code></pre>

An <code>Enumerable#many?</code> extension was also added that is simply a boolean test for <code>enumerable.size > 1</code>:

<pre><code class="ruby">[].many?
=> false
[:just_me].many?
=> false
[:just_me, 'my_friend'].many?
=> true</code></pre>

"Object#present? changeset":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/a3caf28da3a22c1326d3d98dcf71483a8edaa55a - "Enumerable#many? changeset":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/556204abaf95f7c995576cb1358f13de406682ab



h4. Declarative block syntax for writing tests

DHH was inspired by "Jay Fields":http://blog.jayfields.com/ when he committed this bit of syntatic sugar: you can now write your tests (<code>Test::Unit)</code> in declarative block style like so:

<pre><code class="ruby">test "an anime should be invalid if any of its characters are invalid" do
  # Your usual test code here.
end</code></pre>

I seldom use Test::Unit (except when submitting Rails patches) and prefer RSpec - this declarative style of writing tests is definitely more readable.

All Rails-generated test stubs now use this new syntax.

"Changeset details":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/f74ba37f4e4175d5a1b31da59d161b0020b58e94


h4. Performance tests

Jeremy Kemper has been hard at work optimizing and improving the performance of Rails, so it's no surprise that he has also introduced a new type of integration test: the performance test. 

You can use the performance test generator (added by Pratik in "23232a":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/2e232af91f7e276904e02cbb1ea42ea24c19255b) to generate a performance test stub.

<pre><code>script/generate performance_test LoginStories</code></pre>

Running the performance test requires ruby-prof >= 0.6.1, which is still unreleased but you can get at it the development version by checking out the source and installing the gem yourself (I suggest you get "Jeremy's fork of ruby-prof":http://github.com/jeremy/ruby-prof/ for now). It's interesting to note that with the 0.6.1 release, ruby-prof supports profiling tests cases written using Test::Unit.

Moving on... Put in some test code (request a few controller actions - whatever user story you want to test performance of) and run the test. You'll get output like this (together with the usual ruby-prof profiling output in the test/tmp/performance directory of your Rails app):

<pre><code>> ruby performance/login_stories_test.rb 
Loaded suite performance/login_stories_test
Started
LoginStoriesTest#test_homepage (32 ms warmup)
        process_time: 11 ms
              memory: unsupported
             objects: unsupported
.
Finished in 0.870842 seconds.</code></pre>

The <code>memory</code> and <code>objects</code> results are "unsupported" because I haven't patched my Ruby interpreter for memory profiling support. You'd need certain Ruby interpreter patches to enable memory and GC profiling. I wish I could tell you more about how to do so, but I'm treading unfamiliar ground here. There are "some details here":http://blog.pluron.com/2008/02/memory-profilin.html on how to patch Ruby for memory profiling. I leave it for wiser folks to explain how to do this :)

"Changeset details":http://github.com/rails/rails/commit/eab71208db1afead6803501c8d51d77625e5ad6e


h4. Outro

That's it so far for new feature/API changes in Rails since Rails 2.1 - performance improvements are coming up in the next post and I've also intentionally left out mention of the "Rack support":http://github.com/ezmobius/rails/ that has been partially merged into edge.

If there were any errors or you have any suggestions on how to make this column better, please point them out in the comments. Any info on patching your Ruby interpreter for memory profiling support is also greatly welcome. If I've left out anything that I'd considered not noteworthy enough but you disagree, let me know in the comments too.