---
layout: post
title: The State of the Wiki
categories:
- activism
author: Mike Gunderloy
published: true
date: 2009-02-10 02:03:00.000000000 +00:00
---
The new and revitalized "Rails Wiki":http://newwiki.rubyonrails.org/ launched about two weeks ago, so it's time for a progress report back to the Rails community. The short answer: things are going well. We've had nearly a hundred edits, dozens of topics put in place, and an active discussion on the "wiki mailing list":http://groups.google.com/group/rubyonrails-wiki. Translators are already at work making the wiki content available in multiple languages. For topics ranging from a first Rails application walkthrough to handling timezones, the new wiki is already a spot to go for quality Rails content.

The wiki team has applied lessons learned from the old Rails wiki, which has gone from being a comfortable spot to find out a few things to a cluttered mess over the years. They started out by defining an overall structure and figuring out what warranted coverage in the wiki. Then they protected a few pages from edits and set up a login system to encourage accountability. The result, so far, is a very promising start at an information resource that can benefit all Rails developers.

But there's plenty more to do. If you take a look at the "new wiki home page":http://newwiki.rubyonrails.org/ you'll find a bunch of topics in red with dashed underlines. Those are topics that we want, but that no one has written yet. If you have a few minutes to give back to the community, why not drop by? Whether it's drafting a new topic from scratch, revising an existing topic to be more clear or correct, adding links to high-quality external resources, or translating the wiki into another language, there's plenty left to do - and just about every Rails developer should be able to contribute.