---
layout: post
title: Get Paid to Work on Rails
categories:
- jobs
- activism
author: Mike Gunderloy
published: true
date: 2009-03-19 11:35:00.000000000 +00:00
---
Last year, as you may recall, Rails got "thread safety and a new core committer":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2008/8/16/josh-peek-officially-joins-the-rails-core thanks to our participation in the "Google Summer of Code":http://code.google.com/soc/ program under the auspices of "Ruby Central":http://rubycentral.org/. This year, we're pleased to announce, Ruby on Rails has been accepted into Google Summer of Code as a "sponsoring organization":http://rubycentral.org/ in its own right. 

What does this mean to you? Potentially, if you're the right person, you can get _paid_ to work on the Rails core code this summer!

The "right person" in this case is one who is at least 18 years old (sorry, Google's rule, not ours!), a full- or part-time college student, and passionate about improving Rails. We're building a potential list of "project ideas":http://wiki.rubyonrails.org/gsoc/2009/ideas on the Rails wiki, but we welcome other interesting proposals. We're especially interested in work that meshes well with the "plans for Rails 3.0":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2008/12/23/merb-gets-merged-into-rails-3, which will be in full swing by the time GSoC launches. If your proposal gets accepted, Google will pay you $4500 over the course of three months to work on the code.

If you're interested, head over to the "GSoC site":http://socghop.appspot.com/ and start reading about the process. Student applications can be submitted starting March 23.

What if you're not a student? You can still help out by brainstorming ideas on the Rails wiki. Or if you're a Rails guru and ready to make a strong commitment to help out the next generation of developers, you can "apply to be a mentor":http://socghop.appspot.com/org/apply_mentor/google/gsoc2009.

We're looking forward to working with this year's students, and expecting some outstanding contributions to Rails as a result!

