---
layout: post
title: Timing Weakness in Ruby on Rails
categories: []
author: michael
published: true
date: 2009-09-04 05:47:00.000000000 +01:00
---
There is a weakness in the code Ruby on Rails uses to verify message
digests in the cookie store.  Because it uses a non-constant time algorithm to
verify the signatures an attacker may be able to determine when a forged
signature is partially correct.  By repeating this process they may be able to successfully forge a digest.

<pre>
Versions Affected:  2.1.0 and *all* subsequent versions.
Fixed Versions:     2.3.4, 2.2.3
</pre>

h4. Impact

Due to issues like network latency, non-deterministic GC runs and other
issues it is unlikely that this attack could be exploited in the wild
within a reasonable timeframe.  However users should still upgrade as
soon as possible to remove the weakness.

h4. Releases

The 2.3.4 and 2.2.3 releases will be made available shortly and will contain fixes for this issue amongst others.

h4. Patches

In order to provide the fixes for users who are running unsupported
releases, or are unable to upgrade at present we have provided patches
against all affected stable release branches.

The patches are in a format suitable for git-am and consist a single
changeset which implements

* "2-2-timing-weakness.patch - Patch for 2.2 series":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/assets/2009/9/4/2-2-timing-weakness.patch
* "2-3-timing-weakness.patch - Patch for 2.3 series":http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/assets/2009/9/4/2-3-timing-weakness.patch

h4. Credits

Thanks to Coda Hale for reporting the bug to us, and helping us with the fixes.

